\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ggadt.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GGADT @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for GGADT (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which calculates scattering properties of dust grains in the interstellar
medium by using anomalous diffraction theory (ADT). 

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying
@c If your manual is published on paper by the FSF, it should include
@c the standard FSF Front-Cover and Back-Cover Texts, as given in
@c maintain.texi.

@dircategory Basics
@direntry
* GGADT: (ggadt).        
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GGADT
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author John Hoffman (@email{jah5@@princeton.edu}), Michael Tarczon (@email{mtarczon@@princeton.edu})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GGADT
This manual is for GGADT (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which calculates scattering properties of dust grains in the interstellar
medium by using anomalous diffraction theory (ADT). 
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Installation::	How to install @command{ggadt} on your system.
* Invoking ggadt::	Giving @command{ggadt} your input.	
* Example usage::	Quick examples to get you started.
* Benchmarking::	Test speed
* Plotting::		Using python (>=2.7 with matplotlib functionality)
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The @command{ggadt} program calculates the x-ray scattering properties of dust
in the interstellar medium. You define the geometry and composition
of a dust grain (there are a few ways to do this, 
to be discussed later), the energy of the incident x-ray photons, along
with a few other parameters. The @command{ggadt} program then calculates the
orientationally-averaged scattering cross section in the plane perpendicular to
the incident photons. 

@cindex Fortran 2003



@itemize @bullet
@item
@cindex Automake
@cindex Autoconf
It uses Automake (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,automake,GNU Automake}) and
hence also Autoconf (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,autoconf,GNU Autoconf})
for configuration.

@item
@cindex Gnulib
@cindex @command{srclist-update} script
@cindex @file{README-dev} source file
It uses Gnulib (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,gnulib,GNU Gnulib}) to enhance
portability and avoid duplication of common sources.  Both
@code{gnulib-tool} and @code{srclist-update} are used, for purposes of
example.  See the @file{README-dev} file in the distribution.

@item
@cindex Gettext
GNU Gettext (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,gettext,GNU Gettext}) is used
for internationalization support.  Hello's greeting has been translated
into many languages.

@item
@opindex --help
Internally, Hello uses the GNU @code{getopt_long} function
(@pxref{Getopt Long Options,,,libc,GNU C Library}) to parse options,
thus supporting GNU-style long options such as @option{--help}.

@item
@cindex Help2man
The Hello Man page is generated with GNU @code{help2man}
(@pxref{Top,,Overview,help2man,GNU @code{help2man}}) from the
@option{--help} output.  This relieves the maintainers from the burden
of updating separate man documentation, yet provides a reasonable
overview for man devotees.

@item
@cindex Texinfo
Finally, Texinfo (@pxref{Top,,Introduction,texinfo,Texinfo}) is the
documentation format for this manual.  It supports output in Info,
HTML, PDF, DVI, plain text, XML, and other formats.

@end itemize

GNU Hello is implemented in C@.  The GNU Gettext distribution contains
``hello world'' examples in many other programming languages; see the
Gettext home page at @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/}.

@cindex @file{Makefile.am} targets
The top-level @file{Makefile.am} in Hello also contains a few special
targets for other projects to adapt as desired:

@table @code
@item diff
Make a diff from the previous release, assuming the current tarball is
in the current tarball.

@item po-check
Verify that all source files using @code{_()} are included for
translation in @file{po/POTFILES.in}, so translators will have all the
messages.

@item wwwdoc
Sample procedure for updating the manual on the GNU web site, in this
case @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/hello/manual/}.
@end table

@cindex authors
@cindex Hoffman, John
@cindex Tarczon, Michael
GGADT was written by John Hoffman and Michael Tarczon.


@node Sample output
@chapter Sample output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some examples of running GNU Hello.

This is the output of the command @samp{hello}:

@example
Hello, world!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello --traditional}:

@example
hello, world
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello --greeting=hi}:

@example
hi
@end example


@node Invoking hello
@chapter Invoking @command{hello}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{hello} program is:

@example
hello @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

With no options, @command{hello} prints the greeting @samp{Hello,
world!}.

@command{hello} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --greeting=@var{text}
@itemx -g @var{text}
@opindex --greeting
@opindex -g
Output @var{text} instead of the default greeting.

@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --help
@opindex -h
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@cindex environment variables, help for
@c This comment prevents `make syntax-check' from diagnosing a doubled word "for\nFor"
For the @option{--help} output of GNU programs, it's strongly
encouraged to include a brief (one or two sentences) description of
what the program does, as well as the synopsis of how to run the
program.  Any environment variables which affect execution should also
be mentioned (Hello doesn't have any).

@item --next-generation
@itemx -n
@opindex --next-generation
@opindex -n
Output the greeting, but possibly including box-drawing
characters or other fancy stuff, especially in translated locales.
(If you would like to volunteer to translate messages for GNU packages,
please see @url{http://translationproject.org}.)

@item --traditional
@itemx -t
@opindex --traditional
@opindex -t
@cindex traditional
@cindex modern
Output the traditional greeting message @samp{hello, world}.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of Hello on
standard output and then exit successfully.

@end table

If more than one of the greeting options (@option{-g}, @option{-n},
@option{-t}, and their long-named equivalents) is specified, whichever
comes last takes precedence.


@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs, suggest enhancements or otherwise discuss GNU Hello,
please send electronic mail to @email{bug-hello@@gnu.org}.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version numbers of Hello (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{hello --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying
      installation directories.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}} (@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}) and
include @file{ChangeLog} entries (@pxref{Change Log,,, emacs, The GNU
Emacs Manual}).  Please follow the existing coding style.


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
